# Entity
## Overview



<%= data.branding.productName %> **User Entities** (also called **Player Entities**) are full json
objects (similar to Global Entities) except that are private to a <%= data.branding.productName %> user. User entities can be as simple or complex as you would like. All User Entities:

* have a unique `entityId`, generated by <%= data.branding.productName %>
* have a developer-defined `entityType` (string)
* have a `version` to help control updates
* have a json `data` section for developer-defined content
* are by default private to a user, though can be set as shareable via `acl`

User Entities are normally retrieved in bulk after a user logs in, and then
updated in real-time as the user interacts with them.

:::caution
Prior to release 2.22, all user entities were returned in the Authenticate and GetProfileState
 methods. This is no longer the default behavior, but it can be re-enabled via the Compatibility settings on the [Advanced Settings page](https://portal.braincloudservers.com/admin/dashboard#/development/core-settings-advanced-settings)  the portal.
:::

Note that User Entities are by default private (only accessible by the owner), but you *can* make the accessible to other users via the [GetSharedEntityForProfileId](/api/capi/entity/getsharedentityforprofileid) and [GetSharedEntitiesForProfileId](/api/capi/entity/getsharedentitiesforprofileid) APIs. To do so, you must make them shareable to others via the [ACL](/api/appendix/acl) settings.

User Entity methods are organized into the following categories:

* Core Access - the basic user entity methods
* Singleton - for accessing entities as a singleton - useful for when there will only ever be a single entity of that type. Note that you don't have to explicitly create singletons, just blindly update them, and the system will create them if they don't exist
* Shared Data - used for accessing the shared user entities of another user


### API Summary

### Core Access:

* [CreateEntity](/api/capi/entity/createentity)
* [DeleteEntity](/api/capi/entity/deleteentity)
* [GetList](/api/capi/entity/getlist)
* [GetListCount](/api/capi/entity/getlistcount)
* [GetEntitiesByType](/api/capi/entity/getentitiesbytype)
* [GetEntity](/api/capi/entity/getentity)
* [GetPage](/api/capi/entity/getpage)
* [GetPageOffset](/api/capi/entity/getpageoffset)
* [UpdateEntity](/api/capi/entity/updateentity)
* [IncrementUserEntityData](/api/capi/entity/incrementuserentitydata)


### Singleton

* [DeleteSingleton](/api/capi/entity/deletesingleton)
* [GetSingleton](/api/capi/entity/getsingleton)
* [UpdateSingleton](/api/capi/entity/updatesingleton)

### Shared Data

* [GetSharedEntityForProfileId](/api/capi/entity/getsharedentityforprofileid)
* [GetSharedEntitiesForProfileId](/api/capi/entity/getsharedentitiesforprofileid)
* [GetSharedEntitiesListForProfileId](/api/capi/entity/getsharedentitieslistforprofileid)
* [UpdateSharedEntity](/api/capi/entity/updatesharedentity)

For more information on how <%= data.branding.productName %> organizes data, refer to the [Cloud Data Overview](http://getbraincloud.com/apidocs/api-modules/data/).



<DocCardList />